Workflow for creating field surveys using Survey123
Author: D Husband 
Year: 2022


Survey123 is available through ArcGIS organization accounts (includes publishing
privileges). One can get a 21-Day Education Trial but be cautioned as everything 
created will be deleted after 21 days. 

This is a tutorial for getting started:
<https://learn.arcgis.com/en/projects/get-started-with-arcgis-survey123/> 

Some important considerations:
Design surveys based on the specific data you need to collect. Each data field 
you set, like a measurement field, will be a row and column value in an excel 
spreadsheet. Some fields do not bear repeating such as observer, unless only 
one ArcGIS profile is used, and identity is not preserved. 

Fields can be set as mandatory (red *, or Validation) which means the survey 
will not submit unless fields are completed. 

Using Survey123 in the field: it is best used on a mobile device such as a 
cell phone, tablet, etc. In a lab setting, you can submit forms through a 
computer as well which may be more efficient than paper datasheets. 

Map tiles will update to your device's Lat Long location. 


Workflow:

Created new survey application titled "Odonate Site Visit Survey."

Select and drag Date and Time and check Validation box, "This 
is a required question." 

Select and drag Singleline Text. Title "Site Name" with a Hint "i.e. Tahoka Lake."
and check Validation box, "This is a required question." 

Select and drag Multiple Choice. Title "Which point are you currently
surveying?" with a Hint "i.e. This is the second survey point. Select 
"Point 2." Surveying with multiple observers? Negotiate points." 
Check Validation box, "This is a required question." 

Select and drag Map. 

Select and drag Single Choice. Title "Sampling Substrate" with a Hint "i.e. 
I am standing on bare ground conducting this survey." Set choices 
"Grass, Bare Ground, Edge Vegetation, Concrete." Check Allow "Other," enter 
"Other Ground Cover."

Select and drag Single Choice. Title "Survey distance from water's edge." 
Set choices, "<1m, 1-2m, >2m." 

Select and drag Single Choice Grid. Title "Dragonfly." Set choices (columns)
"1-5 individuals, 6-20, 21-100, >100." Questions (rows) to dragonfly
species and "None of the above."

Repeat for "Damselfly."

Select Multiline Text. Title "Other Survey Notes" with a Hint "i.e. ID uncertainties, 
survey point notes." 

Hit Preview to view survey. Select Publish to share the survey for all users 
the survey is shared with. 


